---
title: 'January to February'
date: 20  20-01-31
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Update
  - Monthly Blog
---

Updates for January to Febuary
======

During January we had more CDT training, involving Electrical networks and power electronics, the history of Coal in the north east, impacts of climate change on glaciation, low carbon energy solutions for developing countries, social science and Impact training. During this month I changed the long term plan for the project to focus more around the energy application of metal oxides, such as nanostructured dielectrics in capacitors, nanstructures and atomically thin layers in photovoltaics, and nanostructures for hydrogen storage, this being the main focus of the project. I was also trained on the SEM with EDS so I can analyse the surface of my samples, as well as further training on vacuum technology from Kurt Lesker, which had useful information on gas behaviour in chambers. I contacted someone at Newcastle university to enquire about running a BET experiment with my samples to get a rough idea of the gas adsorption of nanostructured ZnO. I will visit to see the set up first to determine if i can do the tests with the substrate, or if it needs to be powdered.

Work
------

From literature [1], ZnO is a plausable material to use for hydrogen storage-sensing due to its ability to allow for interstitial absorbance as well as surface adsorption. Further to this, doping the nanowires with Mg improves the uptake of hydrogen, which is a beneficial consequence of the fermi energy droping closer to the valance band, increasing the $\rm H^+$ formation. This is also a useful feature, as this will allow me to use Mg doping to create a barrier layer to use for a quantum well based sensor.

With this, I investigated methods of making Mg doped ZnO nanowires hydrothermally instead of direct evaporation of the materials. I found a method [2] which makes Mg doped thin films of ZnO hydrothermally using traces of magnesium nitrate hexahydrate and citric acid in the zinc nitrate solution, the only difference there is they submerge the substrate vertically to deposit thin films, so I will try this with the process for making the nanorods to see if I can dope them. I will be able to check this using the EDS in the SEM. 


[1] Pan, H., Luo, J., Sun, H., Feng, Y., Poh, C., & Lin, J. (2006). Hydrogen storage of ZnO and Mg doped ZnO nanowires. Nanotechnology, 17(12), 2963–2967. https://doi.org/10.1088/0957-4484/17/12/023

[2] Winkler, N., Edinger, S., Kautek, W., & Dimopoulos, T. (2018). Mg-doped ZnO films prepared by chemical bath deposition. Journal of Materials Science, 53(7), 5159–5171. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10853-017-1959-8