---
title: 'March to April'
date: 20  20-03-04
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - Update
  - Monthly Blog
---

Updates for March to April
=======

I have worked this month mostly in the lab on ZnO seed layers and CBD for my ZnMgO nanorods. During the first week I was working on the deposition process of the ZnO seed layer using the Teer Coatings sputtering deposition. For this I used PET (Clean and unclean) and glass for reference (green = clean, red = unclean in picture). I processed the substrates for 15 minutes of deposition to create the seed layer. I chose the shorter recipe because I need the seed layer to be as thin as possible to ensure the nanorods grow verticlally along the normal to the substrate. Ideally I would like to do this processing with ALD, as this will improve uniformity in the sample thickness due to its higher deposition precision, and will allow me to make a seed layer thin enough to not only use as a sensor, but also grow the nanowires normal to the substrate.

I also did some chemical bath deposition using the Mg doping recipe onto the PET substrates with seeds as well as the glass with seed. This was done for around 20 minutes to ensure that the troughs of the nanowires were not too thick to prevent any electron transfer should I use this as a recipe for making the sensor. Examing under the SEM, It seems that this process was unsuccessful at producing nanowires. Further to this, what I found confusing is despite the use of the magnesium nitrate hexahydrate, there was no evidence of magnesium examining using EDS. There was also evidence of large and deep cracks through the material, which could be a consequence of the substrate being flexible.

Work
--------

